## Quotes from Aaron Swartz's blog

From [I Hate the News](http://www.aaronsw.com/weblog/hatethenews):

> Some people start their day by reading The New York Times. Others end it by watching the nightly news. Some get it from The Daily Show. Others download it from a variety weblogs. Some keep up-to-the-minute by following CNN. Others have instant news updates automatically text messaged to their phone. But everybody seems to agree: it’s a citizen’s responsibility to keep up with the news. Everybody except me. I think following the news is a waste of time.

From [The Boy Who Could Change the World: The Writings of Aaron Swartz](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/162097066X/):

* Stealing is wrong. But downloading isn't stealing. If I shoplift an album from my local record store, no one else can buy it. But when I download a song, no one loses it and another person gets it. There's no ethical problem.
* Think deeply about things. Don't just go along because that's the way things are or that's what your friends say. Consider the effects, consider the alternatives, but most importantly, just think.
* There is no justice in following unjust law.
* How does someone get experience in Congress in the first place? By applying to be an intern. Imagine the sort of college student whose idea of a great first job is to run errands and fetch coffee to whichever random person happens to represent their hometown. They're not likely to be someone who cares passionately about making the world a better place—if they were, they'd be working for some activism group. They're not someone who's interested in judiciously weighing the facts and trying to come up with good solutions—if they were, they'd be working for a think tank. Instead, they're someone who gets excited by proximity to power—who's turned on just by striding the Capitol's marble halls, by sitting in a closet next to a Man with Vote, by running into the leaders of the Free World in the elevator. There are people who thirst for a chance at power, and for them, fetching coffee is a trifling price.
* Remember that money is just a kind of illusion. In realitiy, there are just people who want things and people who make things. But we're stuck in a completely ridiculous situation: there are lots of people who desperately want jobs making things—they're literally not doing anything else—while at the same time there are lots of people who desperately want things made. It seems ridiculous not to do something about this just because some people have all the little green sheets of paper!
* They [voters] sat in their houses, watched a bunch of fuzzy TV commercials, and took in news coverage that recited the same vague themes. And then they voted based on which fuzzy image they liked the best. There's a word for stuff like that. It's not pretty, but I think it's appropriate. It's called propaganda. This was an election on the basis of propaganda.
