# The Filter Bubble: How the New Personalized Web Is Changing What We Read and How We Think

by Eli Parser

* The new Internet doesn't just know you're a dog; it knows your breed and wants to sell you a bowl of premium kibble.
* When I interviewed Jonathan McPhie, Google's point man on search personalization, he suggested that it was nearly impossible to guess how the algorithms would shape the experience of any given user. There were simply too many variables and inputs to track.
* If we're not careful, we're going to develop the psychological equivalent of obesity. We'll find ourselves consuming content that is least beneficial for ourselves or society as a whole.
* You may think you're the captain of your own destiny, but personalization can lead you down a road to a kind of informational terminism in which what you've clicked on in the past determines what you see next — a Web history you're doomed to repeat. You can geet stuck in a static, ever narrowing version of yourself — an endless you-loop.
* "If you're not paying for something, you're not the customer; you're the product being sold." **Andrew Lewis**, under the alias _Blue_beetle_, on the Web site MetaFilter.
* In the Google mythology, it is PageRank that drove the company to worldwide dominance. I suspect the company likes it that way — it's a simple, clear story that hangs the search giant's success on a single ingenious breakthrough by one of its founders.
* "The technology will be so good, it will be very hard for people to watch or consume something that has not in some sense been tailored for them." **Eric Schmidt**, Google's CEO
* **Walter Lippmann**, the father of modern journalism, put it more eloquently: "All that the sharpest critics of democracy have alleged is true, if there is no steady supply of trustworthy and relevant news. Incompetence and aimlessness, corruption and disloyalty, panic and ultimate disaster most come to any people which is denied an assured access to the facts."
* Whereas once you had to buy the whole paper to get the sports section, now you can go to a sports-only Web site with enough new content each day to fill ten papers. Whereas once only those who could buy ink by the barrel could reach an audience of millions, now anyone with a laptop and a fresh idea can.
* Professional human editors are expensive, and code is cheap. Increasingly, we'll rely on a mix of nonprofessional editors (our friends and colleagues) and software code to figure out what to watch, read, and see.
* A spicy headline will win over a more trusted news source any day. "People don't make much of a distinction between the _New York Times_ and some random blogger," the executive [of _Yahoo! News_] told me.
* "We think basically you watch television to turn your brain off, and you work on your computer when you want to turn your brain on," Apple founder **Steve Jobs** told _Macworld_ on 2004. Among techies, these two paradigms came to be known as push technology and pull technology. A Web browser is an example of pull technology: You put in an address, and your computer pulls information from that server. Television and the mail, on the other hand, are push technologies: The information shows up on the tube or at your doorstop without any action on your end.
* We pay attention to our mental processes when they fail, but that distracts us from the fact that most of the time, our brains do amazingly well.
* Because personalized filters usually have no Zoom Out function, it's easy to lose your bearings, to believe the world is a narrow island when in fact it's an immense, varied continent.
* _Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF)_ founder **John Perry Barlow** dreamed of "creating a world that all may enter without privilege or prejudice accorded by race, economic power, military force, or station of birth." The freedom that this offered anyone who was interested to transgress and explore, to try on different personas for size, felt revolutionary.
* Most personalized filters are based on a three-step model. First, you figure out who people are and what they like. Then, you provide them with content and services that best fit them. Finally, you tune to get the fit just right. Your identity shapes your media. There's just one flaw in this logic: Media also shape identity. And as a result, these services may end up creating a good fit between you and your media by changing ... you.
* When our online actions are tallied and added to a record that companies use to make decisions, we might decide to be more cautious in our surfing. If we knew (or even suspected, for that matter) that purchasers of _101 Ways to Fix Your Credit Score_ tend to get offered lower-premium credit cards, we'd avoid buying the book. "If we thought that our every word and deed were public," writes law professor **Charles Fried**, "fear of disapproval or more tangible retaliation might keep us from doing or saying things which we would do or say could be sure of keeping them to ourselves".
* Your identity shapes your media, and your media shapes what you believe and what you care about. You click on a link, which signals an interest in something, which means you're more likely to see articles about that topic in the future, which in turn prime the topic for you. You become trapped in a you loop, and if your identity is misrepresented, strange patterns begin to emerge, like reverb from an amplifier.
* When you model the weather and predict there's a 70 percent chance of rain, it doesn't affect the rain clouds. It either rains or it doesn't. But when you predict that because my friends are untrustworthy, there's a 70 percent chance that I'll default on my loan, there are consequences if you get me wrong. You're discriminating.
* Rather than decentralizing power, as its early proponents predicted, in some ways the Internet is concentrating it.
* I once explained to a Google search engineer that while I didn't think the company was currently evil, it seemed to have at its fingerprints everything it needed to do evil if it wished. He smiled broadly. "Right," he said. "We're not evil. We try really hard not to be evil. But if we wanted to, man, could we ever!"
* We may now face what persuasion-profiling theorist Dean Eckles calls a friendly world syndrome, in which some of the biggest and most important problems fail to reach our view at all.
* If code is law, software engineers and geeks are the ones who get to write it. And it's a funny kind of law, created without any judicial system of legislators and enforced nearly perfectly and instantly.
* Kranzberg's first law: "Technology is neither good or bad, nor is it neutral."
* We need more programmers to go beyond Google's famous slogan, "Don't be evil." We need engineers who will do good.
* If I only get the news from my code and my friends, the easiest way to get my attention might be friends who are code.
* "Give us 14 images of you," [Eric Schmidt] told a crowd of technologists at the Techonomy Conference in 2010, "and we can find other images of you with ninety-five percent accuracy."
* As sci-fi author William Gibson once said, "The future is already here — it's just not evenly distributed." It shows up in some places before others.
* Media have always been vehicles for selling products, the argument goes, so why not just cut out the middleman and have product makers produce the content themselves?
* Why _should_ Web sites look the same to every viewer of customer? Different people don't respond only to different products — they respond to different design sensibilities, different colors, even different types of product descriptions.
* We ought to be able to say, "You're wrong. Perhaps I used to be a surfer, or a fan of comics, or a Democrat, but I'm not any more."
* As billions come online in India and Brazil and Africa, the Internet is transforming into a truly global place. Increasingly, it will be the place where we live our lives. But in the end, a small group of American companies may unilaterally dictate how billions of people work, play, communicate, and understand the world. Protecting the early vision of radical connectedness and user control should be an urgent priority to all of us.
